# stress
measuring stress susceptibility
This is a code for the behavioral responses of individuals submitted to an active prevention virtual reality paradigm (VRP) to study a threat’s spatial imminence using a dynamic threat-of-loud noise paradigm in a two-dimensional open field that was contained a 22 cm × 24 cm rectangle of walls. Two small symbols represented the prey (blue rectangle) and the predator (red rectangle), which wandered the whole open field and the individual could move the blue rectangle to escape its capture by the predator with the movements of the keyboard arrow keys.The VRP commenced with a “neutral or familiarization phase” (grey background) where a red preprogrammed artificial intelligence (AI) rectangle appeared at the upper-left side of the open field.  The AI red rectangle was programmed to wander around the maze indiscriminately for 60 s. During this time, the participants were also informed of the amount of aversive stimulation (80dB and 85db- loud noise) they would receive if the AI predator captured them in the subsequent fear (low and high) phases. Next, during the pre-encounter session (control, blue background), encounter session (low fear, green background), encounter session (high fear, light green background), and post-encounter session (no white noise, light green background), a beep tone was produced each time the “prey” went outside the open field. During each phase, the number of encounters between predator and prey and number of escapes were recorded. In the control and post-encounter phases (without aversive stimulation), a bell tone was produced each time the “predator” and “prey” collided. White noise was delivered via two speakers only when there was contact with the AI predator. The collision triggered the application of the noise for 0.5 s. The post-encounter phase was a repetition of stress tasks, but a bell tone replaced the aversive stimuli (white noise). The autonomic variables were concomitantly recorded with each behavioral session. A 5s intertrial black panel separate the sessions.
The entire session lasted approximately 6 min.                       
